From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
our weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 62. Recorded live
Thursday, April 14, 2011. Support
for Hanselman it's as provided
by a teller R a
D control the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with Sam saffron and
Rob Connery about their micro
ORMs. Hi Scott Hanselman. And
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes, and I'm here
at the lovely Mandalay Bay
resort and casino in the
Hansel suite. And I've got
Sam Shafran from stack overflow
and Rob Connery all the
way from Hawaii. How's it
going guys? Excellent. Fantastic. How
are you, Rob? I'm doing
really good. How are you?
Lovely, lovely, lovely. So a
micro ORMs Sam, you kind
of started a little bit
of a firestorm when you
were really, really cool, interesting
blog post on perf of
object, relational mappers, and then
a couple of weeks earlier,
I know that Rob created
a, a tiny ORM called
massive and did a series
of blog posts in which
he basically refactored by deleting
code. What is it? What
is a micro ORM and
how does it relate to
something like IA for link
to SQL? I guess we
kind of coined the same
time. The idea is a,
an ORM that does a
lot less work. So usually
you're used to having every
feature imaginable inside a RM
and they just keep on
adding and adding with the
versions. The idea with the
micro rooms is to stick
to a small subset of
what an RM does and
do it really well and
really fast. Now isn't an
ORM supposed to abstract away
the database and all and
hide everything in the database.
Isn't it supposed to protect
me from SQL that I
could hurt myself with? Yes,
but also you lose a
large amount of control by
doing that. If you're, if
you are trying to like
hide all the work that
you want to do and
ever need to do anything
slightly tricky, you will not
know how to do it.
And also like the abstractions
leak. So you leak performance,
you leak complexity, certain things
become simpler, but also other
things can become more complicated
by talking sequel. You don't
have to translate all of
these expressions into another language.
So, you know, just one
language, which is the language,
the database talks. I remember
when I started working with
my first ORM, the database
people started to become uncomfortable
and they're uncomfortable because suddenly
they're not in control, but
I think they also have
kind of feared for their
jobs. But I'm hearing you
say that if you use
these, ORMs in the, kind
of the, the classic big
object, relational members that hide
everything and you don't know
what's going on, you're going
to kind of get yourself
in trouble. Are you saying
that we need to know
the full stack? I mean,
with NBC and things like
it, we're supposed to know
HTTP and we're supposed to
HTML and JavaScript. And now
you're asking me to know
all about how cardinality works,
left inner outer, join, whatever
data. This is a lot
of work. I don't know
if I have enough brain
cells to hold all that
information. That's an interesting question.
I think, look at, look
at like a trivial example.
You want to ride a
little windows forms app, and
you want to have a
little embedded database. You have
one little table, which is
your, I don't know, your
invoice table, storing invoices in
there. All you really need
to do to do here
is pull in SQL CE
or something and execute three
different queries on it, to
get all of your data
in, to select the data,
to delete the data. There's
no need for like years
of work that was put
into an IRM to do
that. If you had to
code it manually, you could
do that with SQL data
readers. And, but then there's
a lot of code that
you write, which is tedious,
that you're tired of writing.
You've written it like a
thousand times. You don't wanna
write it again, but by
using, by using an ORM
for this particular case, I
mean, all you need to,
all you need to learn
is like three different SQL
constructs. And you're set. You're
not, it's not like you
have to learn every little
bit of, bit of thing
about the database for like
this trivial example. Cool. So
you're saying that a man
up, you're basically saying I
shouldn't be complaining. And then
there's not that much to
learn. SQL is not as
scary as a, as you,
as you think it is
something that I've discovered too,
is that there's a contradiction
between someone who says I
don't, I don't want SQL,
you know, I don't want
to write SQL, right? Those
are usually the same people
that say, you get your
designer out of my face.
I want to write my
own HTML. And you know,
we we've talked so many
times about abstraction and how
much abstraction do we need
and should I really be
able to get in there
and with, with sequel? I
think, I think, yes, I
think it's one of the
most important things you can
do. And, and I always,
it's kind of been my,
my cause if you will,
SQL is the best DSL
for working with the database
that you can possibly have.
And a DSL is a
domain specific language specific language,
and you need to do
the things you need to
do. Just embrace it. The
SQL. Now that said a
certain amount of abstraction. You
know, you don't want to,
as Sam was saying, right,
insert statements, updates, deletes all
all the time. So you
can abstract a little bit,
but knowing what's going on
underneath is, is critically important.
And for instance, like in
the enterprise, you just talked
about this. If you, if
you use it to like
entity framework or, and hibernate,
and you don't really know
what you're doing, you're a
junior dev, you've set it
all up. And you're working
against a hyper normalized database.
Let's say a big, massive
enterprise system. And you start
using entity framework stitching together.
These link calls, you have
no idea, the oatmeal SQL
that's generated. And next thing
you know, the DBA is
not going to new door.
What are you doing to
my database, with this to
extend? And they want you
to use  or the
database person's way of telling
you stop doing exactly right.
And I know that a
lot of database administrators and
databases that I've worked on
a large enterprises, they wouldn't
allow arbitrary SQL. Like, if
you want something you put
in a change request and
you ask for a stored
proc and then go off
and write it for you.
And they call you in
a week when it's, It's
interesting that you mentioned stolen
products. Cause that's like back
to the world of these
micro ORMs, what do you
need for stored? Procs like,
you're just making a simple
call and you're getting a
record set back. There's nothing,
there's no magic going on
there. If you want to
update, you have to call
the stored proc with all
the parameters and send it
in there. You don't have
any of, so, so using
something like entity framework for
like a project that is
purely stored, procs it doesn't
even make sense. There weren't.
There are two arguments for
four stored procs one was
there faster. That was an
argument. And the second one
was that you never know
if your database tables might
change or rename or columns
move around, but the, the,
the stored proc was an
interface that you could count
on. I think that's what
people would say. I think,
I think it's a bit
of a lie. I think
what the real reason is
that when there is push
for stored procs is the
DBS want control. They don't
want to let you mess
up their database. And by
taking the stored products and
owning them, they're not worried
what these silly developers are
going to do. But I
think if you did man
up earlier and learn sequel
and was able to like
structure some of these queries
and started thinking in sets
and not just iteratively, like
a lot of programmers do,
which is like a very,
very common issue that people
are just, you know, I
know how to do a
loop from one to 10
and you don't think, yeah,
well, I'm in SQL. Now.
I need to work in
a set. That's the efficient
way of working. So once
you've had that shift and
you understand how to deal
with it, it becomes a
lot easier. And then the
data DBS respect you more
and allow you to work
against the database. What do
you think, Rob? Sorry, you
look like you had an,
a you're deep deepened thought
and you maybe you'd fallen
asleep. No, it wasn't falling
asleep. I was just thinking
about the DBEs out there
specifically. What are they going
to do? Well, they like
it without the abstraction. You
know, they, I had a
DBA look at massive and
I said, what do you
think? Am I nuts? You
know, and was a good
friend of mine, Rob Sullivan.
And he, he looked at
this and he said, Oh,
I just love you. Thank
you so much. I'm not
having to do it. And
he just started spazzing out
and he started looking at
the way I was sending
in parameters. And so why
did he like that? Cause
Rob Sullivan is a hardcore
DBA. He's a guy who
tends his SQL Tables as
one would tend their garden.
Yeah. He liked it because
he was able to get
into the nitty gritty system,
SQL client stuff, the add
parameters and make sure that
I like the length and
the string call was 4,000.
So it optimized the plans.
So I didn't write SQL
that, that blew up his
indexes and on and on
and on. And, you know,
he could actually prove the
SQL in the code. Okay.
Or send me a block
of SQL or just say,
run this SP either way.
The communication between my code
database, Rob and everything just
was streamlined. It's no longer
like, well, how do I
get entity framework to not
use an in, you know,
in this thing and use
it Right? How do I
flip? So it's like when
someone gives you a bunch
of lights, they give you
a bunch of switches and
then you figure out what
switch turns on which line.
But here's the question I
want to understand. And, and
I, I know you're an
incredibly old man, Robin, I
am also a, of advanced
age and I've been doing
this almost 20 years. Did
we, as an or as
a, as a group, as
a, as a, as a
career go insane for the
last 15 years, because I'm
hearing all of these people,
I respect these, what I
call alpha geeks, reveling in
inline, inline scripting, things like
webpages and PHP and reveling
in select star from episodes
sitting right there next to
JavaScript and HTML and talking
about how refreshing and clean
it is. But in 1995,
when we were doing the
exact same thing, we were
like, Oh, it's hell on
earth. What are we doing?
Oh my God. I mean,
we are writing the same
stuff that I thought was
crap in 1995. Didn't 2011.
Is this just an example
of we're all going to
end up writing lists in
the future anyway? Or did
we go into, did we,
did we have some kind
of break, you know, was
it really was the last
15 years that it really
happened? I think, I think
that users are finally catching
up. And what that means
is in the beginning and
w you know, the web,
the internet, it was mostly
geeks like us, right? And
we don't really care at
times, new Roman is fine.
And, you know, you go
to a message board and
there's a box, you type
into it. And so now
it seems like the web
is, of course, the web
users, like my mom are
on Facebook and they expect
things to look and act
a certain way. The people
that pay attention to that
are the ones that say
you and your architecture and
all your, I don't care,
get it done. And it's
the people that can get
it done that are able
to make this really compelling
designs for users. Get it
out there, thinking user first,
you don't think software first.
I think that's responsible for
a lot of this, to
be honest, You're saying that
the, the get her done
attitude is what's moving us
away from these large, these
large systems, what was moving
us towards them, where we
were all reading Fowler and
all of these different people
and building large systems for
years and years and years,
I was, I was paid
to whiteboard for money when
I was doing consultancies. And
I was explaining how to
build large object oriented systems
and they worked And they
were successful, but are you
telling me they're just not
necessary? Well, let's think about
MSDN not to pick on
Mike or the asp.net site,
right. They just went through
great readers that we use
on Bronco now and ASP
that if you could, if
you can, in a single
sentence, describe the difference between
asp.net. Let's say five years
ago, and today, what would
that sentence be? I mean,
it would be less, more
organized and less is more.
And, and, and it's, it's
a user defined experience before.
It was just basically a
bunch of like, test me
to a sink to, to
saying that a single file
with inline sequel and JavaScript
and HTML is better than
controls and data grids and
data sources and abstraction layers.
Well, for me, the user
experience, again, to come back
to ESPN on that site,
someone sat down and thought
about what is my reader
going to do, and how
are they going to get
to the information rather than,
well, me as an engineer,
I think we should display
links over here. And these
12,000 ads and whatnot thought
about the user first. And
so to bring it back
to your point, sometimes that
simplicity, mental simplicity of, of
taking all the cruft out
of your brain, thinking about
the user makes you develop
a compelling experience, because if
it takes you a circuitous
route to build that user's
experience, you're going to get
fatigued. You're going to say,
I just, just throw a
list box on the page.
I don't, you know, it
doesn't need to do a
dropdown. Okay. What do you
think Sam? Is this just
a, you're not going to
need it. Yes. The Agni
has caught up with us
a decade later. I don't
think it's mutually exclusive. I
think these systems can coexist.
And for some, for some
things, there are some problems
that like having a slightly
more complicated abstraction is really
handy. If you need to
like cut through results in
all sorts of weird ways.
So you've got to display
a list of things and
you have to order it
by this or by that.
And you have to filter
it by this, or by
that you're stuck, composing these
fairly complex things. I think
something that happened is that
because these big, big systems
solved this one complicated problem
and also solved another 1000
problems, we were stuck using
this big complicated system. What
I'm hoping is that we'll
be able to like reduce
this down and build a
smaller piece that does capture
all of those common issues
that we have. So, yeah.
So back to your original
thing, I mean, did we,
were we sleeping for the
last 15 years and did
we make a huge mistake
now? I don't. I don't
think so. I think we
learnt a lot, but I
think once, once in a
while, we have to go
back to basics and try
and figure out what, what
really is happening. We want
to know, we don't want
to be sitting there blind
to these huge systems that
people are throwing it. We
want to be able to
debug down to the lines
that are sending commands to
the database and figure out
what is going on. Hi,
this is Scott coming to
you from another place in
time. Are you using agile
practices to manage your software
development? There's lots of tools
in the, that manage the
steps Of a project, but
most of them focus on
individual roles, get ready for
a solution that caters for
the success of the whole
team. Guys at Tellerik introduced
team pulse. It's an agile
project management tool. That'll help
you gather ideas, estimate plan,
track progress in a common
workspace. Finally, companies, regardless of
their size can use a
lightweight and convenient tool that
makes all the stakeholders work
as a United team. Even
if they're in different countries
by combining intuitive user interface
and the power server light
team poles removes the roadblocks
that you typically face and
applying agile in an effective
manner, no more lost data,
no disparate systems, no lack
of critical analytics regarding the
health philosophy project. So you
yourself get a free copy
for five users in one
project at tellerik.com/team pulse. And
please do thank tolerance for
supporting Hansel minutes on their
Facebook fan page, facebook.com/t L
E R I K Keller.
We do appreciate it. There
wouldn't be a Hansel minutes
if there wasn't teller helping
us. So what I'm hearing
you say is that it's
not that we are saying
the last 10 years was,
was a mistake, but we
are hearkening back to a
simpler time. And we are
saying that, you know, sometimes
you need a power drill
and sometimes you do it
the old fashioned way, the
way our ancestors did in
the early nineties, like there
was time when you do
it, the, the simple close
to the metal way. And
then there's also a place
for the larger things and
perhaps mix and matching when
the tools are appropriate. I
was just thinking that it
also follows a very natural
pattern of complexity, resolving simplicity,
which is lasting out to
complexity. It's like butterfly wings
and hurricane and all that
stuff where you do get
to a point and all
of a sudden everything resolves
and an image pops in
my head. Do you remember
when BMW? I think it
was five or six years
ago. They came out with
a new seven series and
they did away with all
the instrumentation. And you think
about these cars that, you
know, were the technical aspect
of these cars, Oh, four
or five, maybe longer years
ago, dash board covered in
instrumentation. And it was kind
of a calling card. Like,
look how technical and cooled
and lit up and Blinky
our car is. And BMW
came out with a single
knob and the single knob
had a screen and you
page through and you click
click, and it's like, you
know, the iPhones interface too.
I think people are moving
to embrace this simple technology.
I think they'd like it.
So in the embracing of
that, you Sam work at
stack overflow, and I know
that you're really big on
the perf perf is kind
of, one of the things
you're known for is that
I know you four and
stack overflow has I think,
40 or so tables. And
the D they use linked
to sequel for a very
long time. It was all
originally done in linked to
sequel. And you found some
hotspots that you didn't like
and link to sequel was
getting in your way. So
what did you do about
it? So the first step
with any performance issues is
figuring out that you have
a performance issue and where
it is. So like you
said, you found hotspots, but
that, that takes a long
time to discover What they
are. Once we discovered the
hotspots, we, there, there are
two things that you do.
One is you try to
make less database calls if
you can. So if we
had a page that was
doing 60 database calls and
we pare it down to
20, suddenly, there's a lot
less round trips to the
database and a lot less
RM work because suddenly it's
only doing, you know, 20
calls. And once you pair
that down, then you continue
to see, well, you know,
is this fast enough? Am
I happy with it? And
for a couple of our
really hot areas, we weren't
happy with it. And then
we just went and hand
coded them, but we already
had them hand coded before
the trouble was that we
needed to be able to
tell how this Rita was
being constructed. We need to
know the, the pipeline between
my abstraction, to where the
database is executing. We needed
to know what that pipeline
was doing and be able
to control it. So that's
when we stepped in with
dapper and replaced it. Okay.
So they'll give folks that
are listening a little bit
more context, right? Linked to
SQL as a one to
one map or between an
object in a C sharp
object maps directly to a
table. And it's a reasonably
lightweight layer, but it gives
you objects when you do
reads and it expects you
to create objects and do
inserts. And you, when you
say that you went kind
of lower down, are you
talking about like, you know,
DB connections, equal client and
database readers and things like
that? Well, actually, yes, at
some point we had some
hotspots initially, where we just
said, no, we can't take
this anymore. We need to
like write the SQL data
reader. And it was like
back to 20 years ago
when you were sitting with
SQL data readers, and I'm
praying that you get the
numbers for the columns, right?
Because you shift by one,
then everything is going to
explode. And if somebody adds
a column everything's going to
explode. So that code is
incredibly fragile. And then we
looked and said, look, you
know, we can create an
abstraction that is, is simple,
lightweight, and replace that, that
code with it and not
lose much perf. And that
is when, like we introduced
our micro around that. So
your micro ORM, I would
say, if I come back
to the select star from
something, what do I write?
If I'm going to like
it in the teen, in
the keynote, it mixed here.
I wrote a using web
matrix database that open. And
then I went query select
star from episodes. And then
what came out of my
stuff was a dynamic object
that was generated by the
web matrix magic. How would
that work in dapper? What
is happening under the covers?
So, so what we do
in dapper is it's a
generic method. So you tell
it that eats of type
posts and it returns a
list of posts. So we
fortunately had post already defined
for linked to SQL so
we can reuse the object.
So it's identical to the
line that you described, except
that it has a generic
parameter. Now underneath what it
does is it perform some
very, very heavy caching. So
it will generate methods that
will read the parameters. Actually,
I'll, I'll go back back
one step with, with that.
We, we we'd pass the
parameter. Let's say we want
to select staff from where
post ID equals one. You're
not going to hard code
that string a thousand times
because it's not going to
be cached. It's not going
to SQL. Server is not
going to be able to
catch that query. So instead
you parameterize that. And we
parameters that we put at
ID, we pass it in
anonymous methods saying ID equals
one. And then we're able
to cash the piece of
code that is able to
read that parameter and turn
it into a SQL command
and SQL parameters. That's part
one of the code that
we're caching that we're generating
on the fly. And the
second part of code that,
that, that will cash is
the code that will take
the SQL data reader and
a new upper post, and
set every property one at
a time, depending on what
the data reader came back.
And this has done dynamically.
So if you add a
column later on, you've done
select style. You add a
column later on in the
database and you add it
again in your posts class.
It will pick that up
on the next run. And
many of us have written
naive implementations of data reader
to object that use reflection
and different things like that.
But since you're really interested
in perf you're actually emitting
these methods, these, these almost
de serializers a collection of
different D serializers that say,
here's the object post or
in my example, episodes, that
is the shape of the
data reader. And I know
that there's columns saying this
and this object has that
property. So rather than reflecting
around, which would be horrifically
slow, you're actually emitting IRL
and saying here's a little
little just for the, for
this app domains, lifetime little
D serializer. Yes. And it
goes left hand, right hand,
left, hand, right hand data
reader at zero. It goes
in here. I don't know
that Correct exactly like that.
And there, there are two
techniques. These techniques existed back
from.net. One reflection emit was
there, but it became incredibly
efficient in dotnet too, when
they introduced lightweight code gen.
And that allows you to
define static methods that can
bypass visibility checks on objects.
So you can even hydrate
private properties. And so on
in dotnet four with the
dynamic movement, there's a new
way of doing this with
expressions that allows you to
build IRL in expressions. The
trouble with lightweight Kogan is
it's, it's both a blessing
and a curse is that
it is very, very close
to the metal. So you
can very, very easily mess
up. If you make a
bug there, there's no debugging.
It explodes. So if you
make one wrong MSL statement,
the next thing you know,
you've got, you've destabilized the
runtime, that's the area you
get, and you cannot debug
into it. Microsoft introduced expressions
in dotnet three, five, and
beefed it up. And dotnet
for, to allow you to
do a lot of this,
Probably found it to be
fairly straightforward thing to build.
We used dial for, we
used it because we're used
to it, right. Mark and
I are both much more
comfortable in it. Also it'll
allow dapper to work in
dotnet to zero later on
if we want to. And
how big is this? How
many lines of code is,
this is dapper couple hundred,
couple of hundred lines. So,
so this is really interesting.
So here's a person optimizing
for performance, and you found
a solution by which you
would say, you know, I
have an object, here's some
SQL make it happen, and
you optimize for performance and
you found happiness. Now, Rob
is always optimizing for happiness,
right? And so you, you
simultaneously and unbeknownst to Sam,
or are off trying to
figure out how to make
things prettier. You've been working
in web matrix, and you
are also a rubious on
occasion. When you tried to
optimize for happiness, you came
up with something called massive,
right? How did that happen?
And why did you do
it? Well, I was working
with web matrix.data a lot
with our podcast site that
we have the other one
and just a few other
adventures. And it was really
fun, but there's a few
things that were missing. And
as we talked about before,
there's certain things with SQL
that are not fun, insert
into Valley, dah, dah, dah,
you end up writing a
lot of stuff, web matrix.data.
Doesn't support that right now.
And I thought, well, maybe
I could just write a
little bit of love for
this thing. And I started
to put some ideas together
and I thought, well, you
know, I could just make
it a method call, or
what if I just sent
it in an anonymous objects
in diesel? Is that into
a SQL column? I did
that. And it worked. And
then I thought, well, what
if I did it with
a dictionary? What if I
did it with a name
value collection? What if I
did it with an expander
dynamic and all this stuff?
And it was really easy
with all the language enhancements
and C sharp for, so
for me, you know, I
was telling somebody yesterday that
I think 25% of the
whole massive thing is a,
the reading out of the
database, or excuse me, it
is, is the actual inserts
and updates. The rest of
it is the reading of
the, of the data that
the putting in of data
and the updating of data
deleting it. And so on
was actually quite simple. And
I'm looking at this and
I'm thinking, well, I don't
really need to base this
on web matrix data. Let's
go down a level. So
you had built it on
web pages. I did. I
started out a way matrix
I data, and I thought,
well, it doesn't do transactions
the way I would expect.
There's a few things I
want in there for performance.
And so I just went
to system data common, which
is, is data factory. And
now we can open it
up to all providers. And,
and I did that and
I started squeezing code down.
And that became for me,
for some reason, the fun
part of it all is
just let's see how small
I can make this. And
it started out at 500
lines, trimmed it down to
a four 50. Then someone
from the community came in
refactored, a bunch of my
mess, you know, out, squeezed
it down to 360 and
we've hovered around three 60
for awhile. And when you
say squishing it down lines,
you're literally talking about semantics.
You're not talking about just
removing white space and making
everything really long line refactoring
using some better expression syntax.
Yeah. So you started, you
kind of wrote a poem,
basically massive. It's almost like,
you know, it's a high
code, it's a big high
coup I mean, you optimized
first for usefulness and happiness,
and then you tried to
optimize because it became a
challenge to make it really
small. Yeah. And he, Sam
is, is using reflection emit,
and he's bringing out real
objects, a real poster, a
real episode. When I use
massive, what do I get
out of my, my execute
call currently? It's, it's, what's
called an expando object, a
dynamic object in.net. And you
can assign a property to
it, read a property from
it. It's kind of a
Willy nilly Plato, so to
speak. But a lot of
people have been asking for
a generic to be used.
You could do a query
T query of T. And
I was thinking about it.
And it's just a couple
of lines of reflection. And,
you know, so funny, I
was thinking about doing this.
The problem is that you
get into, you get into
type conversion. When you're starting
to do reflection, what's coming
out of the database. It
might not necessarily match exactly
the type. And I keep
thinking, I want to do
it, but then, Oh man,
this is going to open
up a big, but isn't
it already done? You're sitting
next to him. Yeah, no,
I, I mean, I did
it with subsonic and people
have done it in the
past, but should you merge
the two should massive and
dapper become massively dapper. I
am not nearly as smart
as Sam, but the point
is though, is there one
library? Here are two, I
think is the question. What
Sam's is purpose driven, which
I think is great. He
did it for performance, and
I'm not saying there's anything
wrong with it. I'm not
saying it's a difference in
vision, but you know, I
didn't even know an aisle
writer existed until I saw
this code. My eyes crossed.
And we, we had a
great time on Twitter. You
know, Jeff Atwood came out
and said, Oh, we're squeezing
your head. We're coming after
you and your lines of
code. And I looked at
dapper and I saw the
perfect thing. And I'm looking,
I'm like, wait, how could
I double up my, you
know, cause they were twice
as fast as, as massive.
And so I got to
going back and forth to
Sam and email and he's
like, well allow for a
connection to be passed in.
That's already open Dov should
have done that before, led
me to refactor down by
40 lines. And then I
added in an overload. Right.
And so yeah, we matched
up now on some calls
there's still fast. Are there
any examples where you have
four or five lines of
code that was written entirely
separately, but ended up being
the way to do it,
or are they entirely different
and unique implementations that just
happen to have similar signatures
and similar proof? I think
it's like when you're I
added the dynamic piece to
dapper after a massive, just
to try and like have
parody there also internally we
use that quite often that
we don't want to like
create a class it's a
little bit annoying to go
through all of that code.
So it's easier just to
take a dynamic back. But
I think we came to
the same conclusion like independently
of, you know, this is,
it's pretty simple, you know,
you build up and expand
those, set up, all those
things on it. And I
think one of the big
differences between dapper and, and
massive is the way that
we pass parameters in. And
I guess for us, like
we re really, we need
to need it to be
able to pass in big
chunks of sequel with lots
of intertwined parameters and be
able to tell which one
is which, whereas I guess
massive is not dealing as
much with that problem. It's
trying to be something a
lot leaner, but I guess
we'll, we'll pick up things
from each framework as they
meet what we need to
do with it. And I'd
be happy to like take
little classes from Robin. I'm
sure he'd be happy the
other way around. So both
of these dapper and massive
for both in new get,
and that's probably the way
the best way to get
them. And I think you're
both on GitHub. Yup. What
do you tell the there's
this canonical person out there?
I don't know if they
exist or not, but I
always talk about the, the
chief architect of the Nebraska
department of forestry, right. He's
working in a big enterprise.
He's out in the middle
of maybe not quite New York
and he's got a lot
of legacy stuff and he's
trying to get up on
the new stuff, but you
know, he's, he wants to
use things like dapper massive,
but maybe he's got linked
to sequel or maybe he's
got an hibernate. What do
you tell that person? Tell
him, what is your problem?
What are your pain points
at the moment? I don't
tell him, look, there's something
shiny and new that is
fast and is awesome. Use
it. I tell him, look,
this is the other options
that you have that are
out there. If you have
a particular performance bottleneck and
your web servers are running
hot because of your RM,
then these are your options.
One thing that I think
I did with DAPA, which
is really important, was a
very, very good benchmark that
measures what the RM cost
is. And now we have
in hibernate in it linked
to sequel entity framework, I'm
accepting patches to add more
and more. There's a very
similar implementation of what dapper
did called up Peter poco.
That also does something similar.
I tell this guy to
figure it out what it
is that he needs to
solve. Right. And I informed
him that these other Lego
pieces exist. You know, for
me, the interesting thing about
massive is, is I don't,
if I'm talking to mr.
Nebraska department of forestry, you
know, it's not that I
think it's going to necessarily
change a lot of what
they're doing right now. Like
if you use this tool,
you'll have, you know, splendid,
happiness, online, all your lifelong.
What I think people have
found is just by playing
with it, they're able to
see some of the new
things that are, are, are
in system, not dynamic or
in C sharp for like,
Oh, wow. I didn't think
you could do this. Hey,
maybe we can go ahead
and take this approach. Right.
And in a way I've
found a lot of people
come back and said, I
really like massive. But what
we decided to do is
X, Y, Z. And I'm
like, great, go for it.
You know? I mean, so
it is different though than
15 years ago. I mean,
much dynamics and Lamaze and
expressions, and I'll met, it's
not classic ASP all over
again, his own. No. And
that's, you know, to come
back to your thing, are
we, are we going backwards?
I don't think so. I
think we're going forwards because
we, you know, the complexity
is resolving now into these
frameworks are so capable and
there's a lot more functionality
in them and we're able
to take that extreme amount
of functionality and resolve it
into something that's simple, which
I think is elegant. Wonderful.
Very cool. Well, you can
check out massive on GitHub
and on a new and
Rob's blog and you can
also learn more about Debra
at Sam's blog. Thanks a
lot. This has been another
episode of Hansel minutes and
I'll see you again next
week.